# Industrial-Monitoring-System-AutoDust-
Every sensor will be connected to LoRa modules, so that the physical data from the sensors will get transmitted and received by a master module, where the module will change its frequency by multiplexing the sensor readings, and will transmit it over serial communication to a computer for graphical view of the sensor data.
The master will also has a wifi connectivity through which mobiles could be connected, in which, the readings can be visualized using an application.


With the help of the UART communication with a Computer and the Master Module, the stream of data from the Master Module is sent to the Computer over USB. 
A JAVA program is built using the SWING framework. Swing is so chosen for a user-friendly GUI desktop application. The application has an Integrated database, here it is HyperSQL DB, and with JDBC, it connects to the development of the JAVA program. The application features a base window where the monitor can add which sensor to view and can switch to the variety among them as wanted. 
Due to the database capability, the software can log the data over a very long period. So that if something goes wrong in the industry, they can trace it back to when the fault had occurred, and this is very important for troubleshooting or maintenance. Even this database can be used for Predictive maintenance.  With the java.net feature, we can upload the data over the Internet, and if the organization owns a domain, with the help of web development, this data can be viewed from anywhere, saying the internet connection is available. The ESP12-E board features a WiFi capability that can also upload data over the Internet. In this way, we refrain from using third-party cloud services, which is very important from the organization’s security point of view.
